It takes about four months
To recover.
Henry: i understand.
Along with the right lobe
Of your liver,
We also remove veins,
The bile duct, and arteries.
We may also
Have to remove part
Of your saphenous vein in your
Leg for connecting the liver.
Right.
Pain is a certainty.
Infections are not uncommon.
Pneumonia is a risk.
Are you trying
To frighten me?
Inform you.
Blood clots in the legs
Can develop.
Injuries to the spleen
Or bowel
Or even death.
You're saying that you don't
Want to do this.
I gave your father
A perfect liver two years ago.
His response was to drink
And to mismanage
His antirejection drugs.
It'll be different
This time.
He'll be different.
I'm sorry, henry.
I know you want
To do this,
But i can't accept you
As a living donor.
Kate: look at you.
What's the matter?
You don't like it?
Are you kidding me?
Mom, it's butt ugly.
Maybe you just don't
Like the bow.
I just want
To send it back.
So, what are you gonna wear
To the dance?
[ coughs ]
I think i'm getting sick.
Should i take
Your temperature?
Mom, i just don't
Feel good, okay?
Please? Please?
Just...
Okay.
All: thy kingdom come,
Thy will be done
On earth as in heaven.
Give us this day
Our daily bread.
Forgive us our sins
As we will forgive...
Any word
On mrs. Hartog's blood work?
I'll ask dr. Grant
The next time he rounds.
Dr. Griffith,
Nice to see you.
Mrs. Hartog.
Hello.
Come pray with us?
Uh...
Actually, i'm rounding.
But i'll come back later
If you're still up for it then.
Okay.
"if you're still
Up for it"?
What?
They're praying.
They're not playing softball.
Hey, chief.
Mary.
Someone left their minivan
In my parking spot.
I ride a motorcycle.
Good.
Always looking for new donors.
How's gilliam?
Liver function
Is very low.
Mr. Hartog?
Dialysis has stabilized
His kidneys.
Heart function?
Decreasing.
That's because
Of the kidneys.
I know. But once we transplant
Him, he'll recover.
He has the most unusual
Antibodies i've ever seen.
I know.
So i wouldn't get their hopes up
About her blood matching his.
I'm not.
All those transfusions leave
Their mark.
I know, and i explained all this
To mr. Hartog's wife.
She's still certain
She's a match.
How many people
Did you let in here?
It's a prayer circle.
It's not hygienic.
You want this one?
I can do this case?
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
Dr. Grant.
I placed your father
On the list.
He's been on that list
For nearly a year.
If a matching organ comes
In from a brain-dead --
It won't, okay?
He's no longer
A good candidate.
I know you want to help
Your father, henry,
But i can't put your life
At risk for a man
Who might choose to destroy
The very gift that you give him.
Man: eleanora!
Eleanora, you in there?
I don't have it. I'm sorry.
I still don't have it.
I'll get it, i promise.
Man on p.a.:
dr. Hanley, please call...
Why do we have to be here?
I could take you
To school, honey,
If you're feeling
Better now.
You hear about
The jane doe?
She's not a good candidate
For organ donation.
Let me be the judge
Of that.
The coroner's on me
About performing the autopsy.
Have you finished
Brain-death tests yet?
No.
Is her blood work back?
Not yet.
Hold off on the declaration
Till the tests come in.
This is a murder case. There's
No donor card, next of kin --
What if i told you they have
A lead on her husband in iraq?
Is her husband in iraq?
They're still trying
To track down his unit.
Fine.
I'll hold off
For an hour or two
While they find
Mr. Doe's unit.
What?
You lied to that doctor.
I think he knew
I was lying, thea.
But, still, you lied.
Sometimes
In complicated situations,
Adults agree
To stretch the truth.
Thea?
Dad, i'm sick.
I mean,
I'm really, really sick.
It's not swollen.
It feels swollen.
Hmm.
I'm nauseous.
Open your mouth.
Daddy.
Your mother tells me your new
Dress is very beautiful.
She also tells me
You're displeased with the fact
That she's going to be
A chaperone at the dance.
I trust you understand
That you even being allowed
To go to the dance
Is us being lenient.
Let me talk to your mom.
She's f-a-k-i-n-g.
She can spell.
Thea:
I'm not faking, daddy.
I thought you were taking
A couple of weeks off.
I have two days left
On my shift.
Oh, so you're just gonna let
Thea fake sick
So she can hang out
With you?
You want to be
Semiformal chaperone?
I'm on call.
So you can't drive car pool
To this week's piano lessons
Or figure out a way to get
To tomorrow's orthodontist
Appointment?
Okay.
Point taken.
She's having a tough week.
I thought mother/daughter time
Would be a good thing.
You're doing a procurement.
It's a jane doe. We'll just be
Sitting around here all day.
Kate...
I hope...
I mean, what happened
A few days ago --
What happened is that
We had sex, nathaniel.
Nothing more than that.
Okay, i'm faking.
Okay.
I do not want you
To take me to the dance.
I swear, i can handle
Going by myself.
Judging by what you did,
Sweetheart, you can't.
Your jane doe was
A prostitute.
Oh.
Might not want to tell
Her husband that.
Well, wait.
If i find another hospital
To take her,
Will you hold off
On the coroner?
We're filling up.
It's hard to leave
A dead patient in a needed bed.
I've seen a coroner move in
Too fast on a jane doe.
When the family learns they
Might have donated her organs --
Given the fact
That we have no consent,
We might be liable
For the lawsuit.
If she's a viable
Organ donor,
It would be such a shame
To hand her over to the coroner.
She's clean.
She's perfectly clean.
Right. Hooker
With a heart of gold.
You got to give me an hour,
All right? Promise me?
I will have her off your hands
In an hour, christopher.
Morning.
How did you sleep?
Okay.
Where'd you sleep?
[ sighs ]
I'm so sorry, jessica.
I worked late last night.
I slept in the office.
You slept here?
I did.
Could we just --
Tonight, could we --
Tonight?
Maybe.
I'll let you know.
Tom:
Firemen and matches.
Cops and hookers.
Surgeons and cigarettes.
[ chuckles ] it's been a long
Time, dr. Grant.
You don't remember my name,
Do you?
But you want to call me
Cleveland, right?
No.
12 years ago,
You used to call me that
For 10 months straight.
It's a tradition.
For 10 months, i would look you
Straight in the eye
And i would say,
"my name is..."
Tom.
Tom jonas.
From cleveland, ohio.
Fellow in liver-kidney, 1995.
[ chuckles ]
There you go.
So, you here to learn
A new procedure?
Here to learn what?
Shadow me
On the new german heart pump?
We were using that pump
At stanford
Three months
Before you tried it out here.
We introduced it to you.
Right.
That's right.
Well, i got to tell you,
I have no idea why you're here.
Well, you took bart jacobs' job,
And i took yours.
Hey.
Hey. I could have come
To the house.
Oh, no.
It's good for me to get out.
I'm already starting
To drive janet out of her mind.
Thanks.
So, you made a deal in exchange
For my chairmanship?
Mm-hmm.
Why didn't you tell me?
It wasn't your deal.
Tom jonas didn't last 10 months
With us.
He's smart, dependable,
A great gut guy.
Yeah.
August '95?
Edgar harrison is presented
With biliary atresia and h.i.v.
Jonas refuses to operate.
October '95 --
Tries to turn away a potential
Liver recipient because he's 66.
Nate, the board is afraid
Of the risks you take.
We can't not take risks.
Let's just say the rest of the
Staff started behaving like you.
Let's just say the death rate
Started going up dramatically.
We are the pre-eminent
Transplant hospital
In the country, bart --
In the world.
And we're just as dependent
On federal funding
As the least reputable.
Nope.
You need tom jonas,
And tom jonas needs you.
Well...
You'll figure out
A way to live with him.
Woman on p.a.:
dr. Garvey...
Ah.
Simon: excuse me.
Yeah?
You must be dr. Jonas.
Yes, i am.
I'm simon griffith,
First-year fellow.
It's nice to meet you.
How you doing?
Good, good.
Hey, you got kids.
Listen, i'm working
With a kidney patient
Who's got congestive
Heart failure.
I know that's one
Of your specialties,
And i thought maybe
You could do a consult.
Oh, wow. I'm sure dr. Grant
Would love to oversee that one.
Dr. Grant.
Yeah.
Listen, i know how it is.
I used to be
A fellow here, too.
Dr. Grant can be tricky.
Half the time,
I just wanted to quit.
How did you make it through?
I didn't.
Well, it's good to know
I'll be working for somebody
Who calls me something
Other than "vancouver."
If you're vancouver
To dr. Grant,
You're vancouver to me.
I see you've met
Our neighbor to the north.
Oh, vancouver?
Yeah.
Check on mr. Hartog's
Heart functions.
Let me know if you're thinking
About upping his drugs
Or going to mechanical assist.
You gave the new guy
A patient?
They won't find a match.
Hey, is that your minivan
In my parking spot?
Which minivan?
Which parking spot?
I need you to accept
A potential donor.
Kate?
Tom!
Oh, my god. Tom!
Wow.
I heard a rumor.
You heard a rumor?
It's true.
Wow.
Why aren't you
Back in school?
Dad, not now.
You got married, right?
Yeah, yeah.
Kate, your potential donor?
Oh, tom, wow.
They're beautiful.
Yeah.
Thank you.
And if you're thea,
Then i'm really old.
I don't get it.
Kate, i'm rounding.
Jane doe -- county's giving me
A hard time,
And i don't have
Next of kin yet.
The first time
I met your mother,
She was fresh off the bus
From iowa.
Not exactly
Fresh off the bus.
Nate, don't be so --
Just keep her at st. Jude's
Until i can figure out
Who her next of kin is.
Thank you, nathaniel.
Tom, so good to see you.
Good to see you.
Thea: bye, daddy.
It's your turn to pick up thea
Tomorrow, nathaniel.
What?
Kate: lock the doors and wait.
I won't be but a minute.
And don't tell your dad
I brought you here, okay?
Nate: so we're still waiting
On kidneys
For hartog, tayback,
And perkins.
What about mr. Espiotis?
He passed earlier today.
Okay.
Liver candidates.
Arthur gilliam is
Our most acute,
But he's 1b on the list
Due to his past behavior.
Isn't his son
Wanting to donate?
I'm not accepting that.
And why is that?
Heart. We got three adults
And one pediatric in the i.c.u.
We're gonna put mr. Foster on
An echmo later this afternoon.
Vancouver,
You can assist on that.
This guy's son is
A perfect match.
The guy's
A recidivist alcoholic
Who drank
After his last transplant.
Yeah,
But if his son --
If the kid
Has complications --
Donor risk of death these days
Is like what,
0.2%?
Any risk in this case is
Too much risk.
Don't you think if his son
Gave him a second chance
That mr. Gilliam
Might turn around?
Nathaniel?
Nathaniel.
"my name is eleanora.
My mother calls me nor.
"we live above what used to be
My father's tailor store.
"my father makes fine coats
And caps for ladies in our town.
The stores got dusty
Since we had to close it down."
It's kind of stupid.
Well,
It's for younger kids.
But you liked it, right?
It was my favorite book.
Why's that?
Uh...
This fatherless girl has
All this ingenuity.
Basically constructs a life
For herself
Out of what's around her.
If it's your favorite, how come
You never read it to me?
I did.
Well, i don't remember you
Reading it to me.
"but every night i sneak inside
And see what might be left.
And if i find a piece of work,
Size and shape and heft..."
Got mrs. Hartog's
Results back.
And?
You want me
To tell them?
I got it.
How are you gonna
Tell her?
What?
I...
I was just so sure.
I was just --
Can i take the test again?
Excuse me?
The test.
Maybe there's been
A mistake.
Mrs. Hartog,
There's been no mistake.
Please.
Just let me please
Take the test again.
Mrs. Hartog,
Take some comfort in the fact
That had your husband not had
So many transfusions,
You'd actually be a match.
Comfort?
The fact is, y-your husband's
Blood type is extremely rare
And the chance of finding
A match is very small.
Well, we are going to increase
His digoxin.
That should -- that should help
Keep us away from...
Hey.
...stenting him.
I'm so sorry.
It's okay.
Kate: okay.
So you were able to get
The address from the librarian?
Good.
So she's catholic. Okay.
Middle-class.
Okay.
And when did the father die?
Has anyone mentioned
Organ donation?
Please tell her
I'm on my way.
Thank you.
What's "swingy" mean?
Swingy?
Mm-hmm.
Uh, i don't know.
You know, swingy.
I don't know.
Uh, pretty, unusual.
Pretty and unusual.
Yeah. Like you.
dr. Grant to recovery.
What are you doing?
Nothing.
I'll be fine, mom.
Don't worry about it.
I'll be right back.
Okay.
I brought you
Some information
On organ donation
And transplantation.
Now? You want to ask me
For her organs now?
I'm sorry.
I know how this must seem.
I just found out my daughter
Was murdered.
I don't want to upset you.
That she was
A prostitute.
And you come to me like
Some kind of a vulture,
You come to me?
I'm only here
To inform you of the option.
Mrs. Snow, i know this is
A terrible time.
If there's anything
I can do for you...
It all went by so fast.
What?
She was just --
I mean,
She was just a little girl.
It's such a waste.
Such a waste of --
Of a life.
Hey.
Have you seen mrs. Hartog?
No.
Yeah, she hasn't been around
For hours.
And?
The woman hasn't left
Her husband's side for a month.
Now she hasn't been around
For hours?
Hey, nathaniel.
The kid's biopsy report
Looks great.
So does his arteriogram.
Nate: right.
He's a perfect candidate.
Okay.
Nadine:
Are you dr. Grant?
Yes.
My name's nadine moore.
I'm henry gilliam's mother.
My ex-husband drank.
He slept around.
His cirrhosis,
His hepatitis are his doing.
Well, then if we're in
Agreement, i think we should --
Well, that's the thing.
We're not.
As far as i'm concerned,
I don't really care anymore
Whether arthur lives or dies,
But my son...
Thank you.
...all his life,
More than anything else,
He's wanted his father.
Mrs. Moore --
I've already lost
My husband.
If i lose my son,
I have nothing.
I understand.
Despite that, dr. Grant --
Despite that,
I want you to know
That i support my son's wishes.
I want you to know that.
Oh, mom told me to wait up here
For about an hour.
This is arthur gilliam's
Latest c.t. Scan.
His portal vein is useless.
All the more reason to use
A cadaveric donor.
Get a cadaver vein,
Attach it to the son's liver --
You do it all the time.
Jessica, do me a favor.
What is it?
Would you buy thea a soda,
Please?
I'll sign your forms now.
Can i show you something?
Of course.
This is how she was.
Do you understand?
This is
How my daughter was.
I don't ever want to...hear
From you again.
I don't ever want to talk
About this again.
I used to have that book --
About the girl
Who makes her own dresses
And then magically travels
To the place
She wants to wear them.
I think it's true.
We put on our uniform
And find our place.
I mean, it was for me,
At least.
Anyway,
We don't have to talk.
It's not about her clothes.
It's about a girl
Who finds her prince.
Well,
That's just how it ends.
Well, if that's how it ends,
Then that's what it's about.
Do you think so?
I do.
I don't think every story
Is about its ending.
Jessica, i'm so sorry.
I didn't expect you to babysit.
She's not babysitting.
No problem.
Thea, i need to get back
To my office.
Okay.
It's just -- i've been
In that room for so long.
It never got to me before.
The chances of your blood
Matching his are so small.
It's not just that.
It's -- i gave up.
I started thinking about
Everything i ever wanted --
Children, travel --
Like i wasn't gonna
Get them.
So you took a break.
It's perfectly natural.
But he can't.
He can't take a break from this.
You know, i'm just
A first-year fellow.
I was assigned
To your husband's case
Because the chances of us
Finding a match aren't great.
They assigned you
Because they --
Because, my guess is,
They didn't think
They'd transplant anytime soon.
So, what does
"first-year fellow" mean?
It means that this is
My trial period.
Right.
That i have a chance
To work here,
But i may not make the cut.
Oh.
It means you didn't lose
Your faith.
It means you had a doctor
That just didn't say
The right thing.
Nate:
I have this patient --
Alcoholic, high-risk -- but
I gave him a new liver anyway.
Yeah?
He drank afterward, went off his
Medications, came back to us.
No way was i gonna
Retransplant him.
Until?
His son showed up,
Wanting to donate.
Man been sober
For six months?
Mm-hmm.
Son seem like
He could handle it?
Yeah, he does.
So, what's the problem?
Do the dead...
What?
Do the dead ever
Just go away?
Sometimes.
The recoveries, never.
When i look back
Over my career,
Over the thousands
Of operations,
What i remember most vividly
Are always the recoveries,
That one moment when you turn
Off the respirator.
Yeah, but this man --
This alcoholic --
Did you recover
The first donor's liver?
Mm-hmm.
Steelers fan. 44 years old.
Up on the roof of his house
Working on game day,
Trying to get
Better reception.
He slips, falls,
Hits his head.
That was that.
Right.
His wife --
Good woman, two kids --
Decides on the way to the
Hospital to donate his organs.
Simple as that.
She made her peace.
She signed the forms.
We performed the recovery
And took his perfect liver
To my patient.
Are we talking
About the dead?
How would his widow feel
If she knew that?
How would
His children feel?
They walk this earth thinking
That a part of him
Still walks this earth
Along with them.
Nate, that donor is dead
And gone.
Your patient is not.
You have to focus
On the living.
That's what we do.
More life.
Whoever's dead and gone,
That's --
We owe them no debt.
Go ahead.
Give him another chance.
Dr. Grant?
Dr. Grant.
Kate: arthur gilliam...
Jim hartog, there you go.
Okay.
Here's how it's gonna go.
I'll take you both down
To the o.r. Together.
The operation's gonna take
About 10 hours.
If at any time we feel
Your son's life is in danger
Or that his liver won't work,
We're going to stop, okay?
Any questions?
I'll see you
In the operating room.
Last time, i thought...
After the operation,
Life might be different.
I thought when i got home,
Something would be waiting
For me -- someone.
But then i got home --
The apartment.
The bar on the corner.
My friends were still in there.
The ball games were on.
I've been a disappointment.
I've broken promises.
I screwed up as a husband...
...as a father.
Dad.
Walk away from all of this.
You need to walk away.
I can give you another chance,
Mr. Gilliam.
The rest is up to you...
But i can give you
Another chance.
How's it going?
She's perfect.
She's absolutely perfect.
You didn't think an organ
Was gonna come available
For hartog, did you?
Nope.
Do i still get to perform
The procedure?
I gave you my word.
Thank you.
But the minute you start to get
In over your head --
Last i checked, anatomically,
Patients from pittsburgh
Were just the same
As patients from canada.
There you go.
* all of the king's horses
* and all of the king's men
* couldn't put my heart
* back together again
* all of the physicians
* and mathematicians, too
* failed to stop my heart
* from breaking in two
* 'cause all i need is you
It's okay.
* i just need you
You're gonna be great.
* yeah, you've got the glue
Okay.
Let's do this.
* so i'm gonna give
My heart to you *
* i had a premonition
* a movie in my mind
* i'll follow my suspicions
* of what i would find
* all i need is you
* i just need you
* yeah, you've got the glue
* i'm gonna give my heart
To you *
I see you can sew.
Yeah, it went well.
* yeah, you've got the glue
* i'm gonna give my heart
To you *
Thank you...
* yeah, you've got the glue
...for letting me do
The procedure.
We'll see
How he manages the rehab
And the antirejection drugs.
* i'm gonna give my heart
To you *
* oooh, oooh
* oooh, ahhh
I was told
You were moving out.
I'm trying.
Huh.
Bart's office.
What?
It's hard to take
Bart's office, huh?
Good work tonight.
Oh. Thanks.
Tom, you know?
My -- my name is tom.
I know.
Well, i got to get going.
Got to move my minivan.
Some surgeon
Has been bitching
About it being parked
In his spot, so...
It's a very pretty dress,
And you are very pretty
In it.
Why did you let me
Stay home yesterday?
Because you said
You were sick.
Yeah, but you knew
I was lying.
Maybe i miss spending time
With you.
Maybe you thought i was old
Enough to go to work with you
And see what you do?
Maybe.
"maybe."
I can handle going to the dance
By myself.
Well, that is,
If you let me go.
Without me?
Without you.
Hey.
What's up?
Sorry to just drop in.
You okay?
Yeah, fine. Fine.
You know, i think we should let
Thea go to the dance alone.
I think she'll be fine.
Sure you're all right?
You've given me more than
A few chances, katie.
Nate --
I needed to tell you that.
You've given me more chances
Than i probably deserve.
You know i would love
For you to come inside.
I miss you
Inside this house.
But?
I think
It's time we move on.
We love each other,
And we'll always be a family --
In our way -- but...
You're right...
...about thea.
It's too late for us
To start laying down new laws.
It's too late for that.
Hey.
How was
That gilliam procedure?
Well.
Good. Good.
Good for you.
Give that man
Another shot.
What about you?
Me?
My guess is
If i had new lungs,
I'd be back
To three packs a day.
Could still do that reduction,
Give you a few more months.
No, no.
I'm gonna take janet
To dublin.
Dublin?
Yeah.
My mother was born there,
And i've never been, so...
Dublin?
[ chuckling ]
Dublin. Yeah.
Oh, um, listen.
I hope you'll keep joyce
On as your secretary.
She was very loyal to me
For decades.
I'd...appreciate it.
Take care.
Is this seat taken?
Kate:
"one special day,
"i find some extra bolts
Of white sateen
And make the beautifulest gown
I've ever seen."
"i make a veil
And long white gloves
"and turn around to see
My handsome groom,
Tuxedo clad,
Smiling back at me."
"the whole cathedral stands
And stares
"and marvels at my train.
But when i reach the altar,
I'm alone again."
You know everybody here?
"i am eleanora,
As you might have heard me say.
I make myself into something new
Every single day."
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from OpenSubtitles.org